---
layout: post
title: Training and Vizualizing Self Organizing Map(SOM) with Numerical Data
---

> Recently i have started working in a cognitive science project. In our project, we wanted to use Self organising Map(SOM) for some cluster 
>analysis purpose. While doing some research and implementation with SOM, i felt i could share my experience and learning with everyone and i 
>can discuss step by step. I have implemented SOM with numerical dataset, the dataset is not so big either small. I will present and discuss 
>the result a bit.
>Note: Data is not public , so not possible to share.  

Let's Talk about SOM a bit....

A self-organizing map (SOM) or self-organizing feature map (SOFM) is a type of artificial neural network (ANN) that is trained using unsupervised learning to produce a low-dimensional (typically two-dimensional), discretized representation of the input space of the training samples, called a map, and is therefore a method to do dimensionality reduction. Self-organizing maps differ from other artificial neural networks as they apply competitive learning as opposed to error-correction learning (such as backpropagation with gradient descent), and in the sense that they use a neighborhood function to preserve the topological properties of the input space.
This makes SOMs useful for visualization by creating low-dimensional views of high-dimensional data, akin to multidimensional scaling.
->The artificial neural network introduced by the Finnish professor Teuvo Kohonen in the 1980s is sometimes called a Kohonen map or network.

Self organizing map is a great alternative for k means algorithm...